.\" -*- mode: nroff -*-
.\" .Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dd October 29, 2024
.Dt HERCULES.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hercules.conf
.Nd "Hercules configuration file"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the configuration file for the Hercules file transfer system.
This configuration file is used by
.Xr hercules-server 1
and
.Xr hercules-monitor 1 .
Its default location is
.Pa /usr/local/etc/hercules.conf .
The configuration file is in TOML format.
.Pp
The following two options must be set, as they have no default values:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic ListenAddress Ns = Ns Ar str
This specifies the SCION/UDP address Hercules will listen on
for incoming transfers.
.Pp
Example: ListenAddress = "17-ffaa:1:fe2,192.168.10.141:8000"
.It Ic Interfaces Ns = Ns [ Ar str , ]
The network interface Hercules should use for data traffic.
Hercules will load an XDP program on this interface.
.Pp
Example: Interfaces = ["eth0"]
.El
.Pp
It is
.Em strongly
recommended to also set the
.Ic DropUser
and/or
.Ic ChrootDir
options, described below.
See
.Sx CAVEATS
for more information.
.Ss GENERAL CONFIGURATION
The following general configuration options are available:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic DefaultNumPaths Ns = Ns Ar int
Specify how many SCION path to use for data transfers.
This is an upper limit, if fewer paths are available only those will be used.
This value may be overridden on a per-destination basis, see
.Sx PER-DESTINATION OVERRIDES .
The default value is
.Ar 1 .
.Pp
Example: DefaultNumPaths = 2
.It Ic MonitorSocket Ns = Ns Ar str
Path to the monitor's Unix socket.
The default value is
.Pa /var/run/herculesmon.sock .
.It Ic ServerSocket Ns = Ns Ar str
Path to the server's Unix socket.
The default value is
.Pa /var/run/hercules.sock .
.It Ic MonitorHTTP Ns = Ns Ar str
The address and port on which to expose the Hercules HTTP API.
This option may be set to the special string "disabled"
to disable the HTTP API.
The default value is
.Ar ":8000" .
.Pp
Example: MonitorHTTP = "0.0.0.0:1818"
.It Ic DropUser Ns = Ns Ar str
Name of a local system user.
If specified, the server will drop its privileges to this user after startup.
If unspecified, the server will run as root.
Running the server as root is discouraged, as it presents a security risk.
See
.Sx CAVEATS
for more information.
.Pp
Example: DropUser = "_hercules"
.It Ic ChrootDir Ns = Ns Ar str
If specified, the server process' root directory and working directory will be
set to this path after startup.
Note that it is possible to escape from a chroot under some circumstances;
see
.Xr chroot 2
for more information.
When setting this option, note that the file paths supplied by users will be
interpreted relative to this new directory.
.Pp
Example: DropUser = "/mnt/data/"
.It Ic EnablePCC Ns = Ns Ar bool
Setting this option to
.Ar false
disables PCC congestion control and Hercules will send as fast as possible,
up to its rate limit (see below).
This may be useful for testing, but sending without congestion control across
public networks is probably a bad idea.
The default value is
.Ar true .
.It Ic RateLimit Ns = Ns Ar int
This option limits Hercules' sending rate.
The limit is applied to each transfer indivudually.
The value is in packets per second.
The default value is
.Ar 3'333'333 .
.It Ic NumThreads Ns = Ns Ar int
Set the number of RX/TX worker threads to use.
Setting this number to 2, for example, will start 2 RX worker threads
and 2 TX workers.
Depending on the bottleneck in your setup, increasing this number will
improve performance.
Hercules spawns other threads, too, so this is
.Em not
the total number of threads used by Hercules.
The default value is
.Ar 1 .
.It Ic XDPZeroCopy Ns = Ns Ar bool
If your combination of NIC/drivers supports XDP in zero-copy mode,
enabling it here will likely improve performance.
The default value is
.Ar false .
.It Ic Queue Ns = Ns Ar int
Specify the NIC RX queue on which to receive packets.
The default value is
.Ar 0 .
.It Ic ConfigureQueues Ns = Ns Ar bool
For Hercules to receive traffic, packets must be redirected to the queue
specified above.
Hercules will try to configure this automatically, but this
behaviour can be overridden, e.g. if you wish to set custom rules or automatic
configuration fails.
If you set this to false, you must manually ensure packets end up in the
right queue.
Some network interfaces do not support multiple queues, in which case automatic
configuration will fail and the server will not start with this option enabled.
In such cases, you may simply set this option to
.Ar false
without further configuration.
The default value is
.Ar true .
.El
.Ss PER-DESTINATION OVERRIDES
The maximum number of paths and payload size to use can be overridden,
either for a single destination host or an entire destination AS.
Additionally, the paths to use towards each destination can be specified via
path rules.
In case both an AS rule and a Host rule match a destination, the Host rule
takes precedence.
Choosing specific paths is useful if too many paths to the destination are
available, or if certain paths are known to perform better.
Choosing a specific payload length is useful if the MTU listed in the SCION
path metadata is higher than the actual MTU the path(s) can support.
In such a case, Hercules' automatic payload size selection will fail, and it
must be set manually.
.Pp
Destination-host rules are set as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Bq Bq Ic DestinationHosts
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Ic HostAddr Ns = Ns Ar str
The destination host this rule applies to.
.It Op Ic NumPaths Ns = Ns Ar int
The maximum number of paths to use towards the destination.
Specifying this is optional, if not set the value of
.Ic DefaultNumPaths
will be used.
.It Op Ic PathSpec Ns = Ns [[ Ar str , ] ,]
A list of AS-interface sequences that must be present on the paths towards
the destination.
Specifying this is optional, if not set no path restrictions are applied.
.It Op Ic Payloadlen Ns = Ns Ar int
The payload length to use for packets towards this destination.
Note that the payload length does not include the Hercules, UDP or SCION
headers.
Hence, the value should be set slightly lower than the actual maximum MTU.
Usually, a value of ca. 100 bytes less than the MTU is fine, but it may need to
be smaller for longer paths.
Specifying this is optional, if not set Hercules will attempt to pick the
right payload size based on the SCION path metadata and the MTU of the sending
interface.
.El
.It Bq Bq Ic DestinationASes
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Ic IA Ns = Ns Ar str
The destination ISD-AS this rule applies to
.It Op Ic NumPaths Ns = Ns Ar int
.It Op Ic PathSpec Ns = Ns [[ Ar str , ] ,]
.It Op Ic Payloadlen Ns = Ns Ar int
These options work the same as in the
.Ic DestinationHosts
rules described above.
.El
.El
.Pp
Example: The following set of rules specifies that
.Bl -bullet
.It
For transfers to the host
.Em 17-ffaa:1:fe2,1.1.1.1 :
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Transfers may use up to 42 paths.
.It
The paths must contain either the AS-interface sequence
      17-f:f:f 1 -> 17:f:f:a 2
      OR 1-f:0:0 22 .
.El
.It
For transfers to the host
.Em 18-a:b:c,2.2.2.2 :
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Up to two paths should be used.
.It
Automatic MTU selection is overridden and a payload length of 1000B is used.
.El
.It
For transfers to any other host in AS
.Em 18-a:b:c :
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
A payload length of 1400 should be used.
.El
.El
.Pp
Example:
.Bd -literal
[[DestinationHosts]]
HostAddr = "17-ffa:1:fe2,1.1.1.1"
NumPaths = 42
PathSpec = [
["17-f:f:f 1", "17-f:f:a 2"],
["1-f:0:0 22"],
]

[[DestinationHosts]]
HostAddr = "18-a:b:c,2.2.2.2"
NumPaths = 2
Payloadlen = 1000

[[DestinationASes]]
IA = "18-a:b:c"
Payloadlen = 1400
.Ed
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Pa /usr/local/etc/hercules.conf
Default configuration file
.It Pa /usr/local/share/doc/hercules/hercules.conf.sample
Example config file showcasing the available options.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hcp 1 ,
.Xr hercules-monitor 1 ,
.Xr hercules-server 1 ,
.Xr hercules 7
.Pp
Further information about Hercules is available on
.Lk https://github.com/netsec-ethz/hercules .
For more information about SCION, please see
.Lk https://scion-architecture.net .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Network Security Group, ETH Zürich
.Sh CAVEATS
Two security issues are present when Hercules is run as the root user:
First, because the receiving-side Hercules server simply writes data to the file
specified by the sender and no authentication of the sender is performed,
a sender may overwrite arbitrary system files.
Second, because the sending-side Hercules server simply copies data from the
file specified by the user and no authentication of the user is performed,
a user may copy arbitrary system files to the destination server.
To mitigate these issues, it is recommended that you set the
.Ic DropUser
and/or
.Ic ChrootDir
options described above.
