.Dd October 29, 2024
.Dt HERCULES-MONITOR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hercules-monitor
.Nd "Monitor component of the Hercules file transfer system"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm hercules-monitor
.Bk -words
.Op Fl c Ar conffile
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the monitor component of the Hercules file transfer sytem.
The monitor is the link between users and the Hercules server.
Users interact with the monitor via its HTTP API.
The monitor interacts with the server component via a local Unix socket.
Hercules is configured via a configuration file (see
.Xr hercules.conf 5 ) .
.Pp
The monitor and server processes must be started and stopped together, you
should not restart one without also restarting the other.
The provided systemd service files ensure this, if you use a different method
to run Hercules you must ensure this yourself.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar conffile
Use the specified configuration file.
By default,
.Nm
will first look for a file named
.Pa hercules.conf
in its working directory, then for the default config file,
.Pa /usr/local/etc/hercules.conf .
See
.Xr hercules.conf 5
for configuration options.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width SCION_DAEMON_ADDRESS
.It Ev SCION_DAEMON_ADDRESS
If the SCION daemon is listening on a non-default port,
.Ev SCION_DAEMON_ADDRESS
can be set to its listening address and port.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Pa /usr/local/etc/hercules.conf
Default configuration file
.It Pa /var/run/herculesmon.sock
Default Unix socket path
.El
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hcp 1 ,
.Xr hercules-server 1 ,
.Xr hercules.conf 5 ,
.Xr hercules 7
.Pp
Further information about Hercules is available on
.Lk https://github.com/netsec-ethz/hercules .
For more information about SCION, please see
.Lk https://scion-architecture.net .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Network Security Group, ETH Zürich
.Sh CAVEATS
See
.Xr hercules.conf 5 Ns s CAVEATS .
